Livingstone online (LO) is an online library and museum about the writer David Livingstone and his life works. This site aims to bring light to his life work and amplify the voices of black historians and explorers.


The site is meant to act more as a library, or an archive of David Livingstone, rather than writing about the explorer himself. As a result, it doesn’t look like a typical website and instead you look around and find the information you want about Livingstone. It’s a great design idea for a website, however it’s not clear even from the home page that it is about an explorer name David Livingstone. First you must go to the about website tab and click on the introduction to learn about the site’s purpose. One way to fix this problem would be to put it in the site’s title (Livingstone Online – Life and Works of David Livingstone) or link the ‘about website’ article to the home page. That way people can immediately find out what the site is about. Then viewers can look up the information they want about David Livingstone. 


Another confusing aspect of the website were the tab tittles. Life and times are simple enough. However, if the reader does not have background on Livingstone, they may not understand why spectral imaging or in his own words is relevant to the explorer.  For example, when I clicked on in his own words, I assumed it may be a diary/journal entry of some kind. Instead, there were articles about his manuscripts. About how his literary work impacted the exploration narrative in the 18th century. Maybe under the more ambiguous headings the creators could describe it more or change it to something more universally understood. 


The information on each article is done well. LO provides the sources they used for each article. If the reader goes through the tabs the tabs in left to right order they can see the life, and contributions of David Livingstone in chronologically. It didn’t really make sense to title a whole section spectral imaging (SI). SI is the method used to translate the documents into legible writing. Since most of the documents recovered are from before the 19th century, they are impossible to read, and first needed to go through SI to be read and studied. While it is an interesting piece of information, it didn’t need a whole tab dedicated to it since this website is primarily about an historical figure, not about technology used to recover documents.  It could’ve worked better as a single article under the same tab, with the tab itself having something more relevant to the articles under it (primary source documents or something). it could’ve had its own tab, and the other articles could’ve been under another tab, or it could’ve been under behind the scenes. 


In conclusion, LO was a great informational resource but lacked the sophistication and organization needed for a website. Even though it is not meant for the average viewer, they could’ve cut down some of the articles to make it more accessible not just for students, but for other scholars looking for information about David Livingstone. 
